In the midst of treatment of this volume,
it will be scanned
when the volume is taken apart
so that we have digital access
to this, to the pages,
where the book . . . the original artifact . . .
won't have to be handled so much
just for people to basically read the text.
Now the treatment that we will be doing
will take that into consideration,
and in mid treatment we will stop
and in fact do the scanning.
As the book is now,
it would be very difficult to use,
especially to use the book
without doing further damage.
It is very much at risk right now;
it is at a point where it is very vulnerable
to further damage if it . . . with any handling.
So it is important at this point to consider
and to think about stabilizing that
just for the future use of this book as a book.
And that will include all the cover issues
and all the text block issues, meaning. . . .
the book probably has to be resewn
because all of the outer folds are broken away,
and in fact the sewing is broken
in a number of places, so it is so far gone . . .
it's far enough gone
that it needs to be redone completely.
That will make it a good solid working . . .
mechanically, structurally
it will work like a book.
In the midst of that we will . . .
since we will have the sewing taken apart
and have all the pages apart as loose leaves,
that's the ideal time to do the scanning
because they can be handled as flat pages,
and you don't have any structural
or mechanical issues at that point
that you have to be real careful with.
Some of the work will be done to the text pages
before the scanning is done
so that all of the folds are intact,
and in fact each section
will be a folded section ready to be sewn.
It can just be taken one page at a time
and handled in a very delicate way
in a very easy way . . . relatively easy . . .
compared to trying to scan
the pages of a bound book.